chore(docs): migrate WASMEdge and Kyverno security assessments (#1835)
cncf/toc: projects/wasmedge/security-assessment/joint-assessment.md

   Example:
   Where Side Channel Attacks are tested against and how the code verifiably written in  “side-channel resistant” way.  [https://github.com/WebAssembly/constant-time/blob/main/proposals/constant-time/Overview.md](https://github.com/WebAssembly/constant-time/blob/main/proposals/constant-time/Overview.md)
   Can you add to the document for each major attack-class: how is it being tested/fuzzed and can you show in your repo/artifacts, and comment how you’d resolve any failures.  
9. Ensure that it is clear why you are having failures on tests when building the code.   Your code is being pushed to production regardless.   Why is this appropriate?  
10. The project could benefit from more effort to explain the security aspects of their design to their userbase.
11. The project would benefit from putting a link (and also a github-badge) in the main-README that goes directly to the security testing/definitions.  Fixed by [https://github.com/WasmEdge/WasmEdge/pull/4216](https://github.com/WasmEdge/WasmEdge/pull/4216)

### Additional recommendations

> * Evaluate implementing software attestation for edge device workloads

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Recommendations

### CNCF recommendations

* Improve documentation translation across languages, especially into English
* Consider adopting CNCF security best practices for software supply chain attestations (in-toto/SLSA)
* Explore integration with CNCF security projects like SPIFFE/SPIRE for workload identity

### Project recommendations

1. The document needs to clearly say about whether you add a formal verifier for your runtime.   What do other runtimes provide to validate they are correctly implementing the WASM spec?
2. Have you done validation of how you’re using WASI, what interfaces you are providing, their security, etc.?  For example, as an illustrative example, can you explain how you’ve validated that your \--dir interface doesn’t have path traversal vulnerabilities?  What is the guidance you give to users who want to use this interface to make sure they do so securely?   Are they free to add symlinks / mount file systems, etc. into that part of the directory namespace, etc.?  
3. Does the fact that WASI isn’t portable and has a lot of undefined behavior give users any security concerns?  

> 4. How are you doing updates of your core functionality on the device?  [https://uptane.org/](https://uptane.org/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Secure the process of distributing updates of your core functionality on the device.  [https://uptane.org/](https://uptane.org/)
```

   or [https://theupdateframework.com/](https://theupdateframework.com/)

> 5. Do you (or should you) be attesting to the software running on the edge device?   Are you doing software supply chain attestations (in-toto / SLSA, etc.)?   Would this be helpful / useful?  Would users expect this functionality?  Consider:   [https://github.com/in-toto/in-toto](https://github.com/in-toto/in-toto)  [https://datatracker.ietf.org/group/scitt/about/](https://datatracker.ietf.org/group/scitt/about/)  [https://slsa.dev/](https://slsa.dev/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Create attestations for the software running on the edge device using best practices.  This should include software supply chain attestations (in-toto / SLSA, etc.).     [https://github.com/in-toto/in-toto](https://github.com/in-toto/in-toto)  [https://datatracker.ietf.org/group/scitt/about/](https://datatracker.ietf.org/group/scitt/about/)  [https://slsa.dev/](https://slsa.dev/)
```

6. Please explain clearly about how one would use things like non-human identities, monitoring, security filtering, etc. Is everything completely compatible with SPIFFE/SPIRE?  Are there any differences in use in comparison to e.g.:    [https://wasmcloud.com/blog/2025-03-04-why-were-adopting-spiffe-for-webassembly-workload-identity/](https://wasmcloud.com/blog/2025-03-04-why-were-adopting-spiffe-for-webassembly-workload-identity/)
7. What should users be thinking about with respect to data residency and jurisdictional constraints when processing sensitive data in WasmEdge?  How does being at the edge change this equation?  
8. Please, add to the main body of the document (and on github)  

>    \- how you ensure continuous verification/testing of the WASM specification of all components (the Verifier, the Loader, the Engine \- every main component in scope of WASM-Edge).  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   \- how you ensure continuous verification/testing of the WASM specification of all components (the Verifier, the Loader, the Engine \- every main component in scope of WasmEdge).  
```

   Example:
   Where Side Channel Attacks are tested against and how the code verifiably written in  “side-channel resistant” way.  [https://github.com/WebAssembly/constant-time/blob/main/proposals/constant-time/Overview.md](https://github.com/WebAssembly/constant-time/blob/main/proposals/constant-time/Overview.md)
   Can you add to the document for each major attack-class: how is it being tested/fuzzed and can you show in your repo/artifacts, and comment how you’d resolve any failures.  
9. Ensure that it is clear why you are having failures on tests when building the code.   Your code is being pushed to production regardless.   Why is this appropriate?  
10. The project could benefit from more effort to explain the security aspects of their design to their userbase.
11. The project would benefit from putting a link (and also a github-badge) in the main-README that goes directly to the security testing/definitions.  Fixed by [https://github.com/WasmEdge/WasmEdge/pull/4216](https://github.com/WasmEdge/WasmEdge/pull/4216)

### Additional recommendations

> * Consider implementing Uptane or TUF for secure updates of core functionality on edge devices

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> * Consider implementing Uptane or TUF for secure updates of core functionality on edge devices

Reviewer 2: Recommendations #4 and “Additional recommendations” here both mention Uptane/TUF and attestations → consolidate/clarify to avoid duplication.
